I feel like people don't talk enough
about things that actually matter in
building a business. I think capitalism
rewards risk. You need courage to make a
leap and um actually commit to these
ideas. To take real risk, you need to
not know what's going to happen
genuinely. So you're you're going to
discover something new. You can fail in
a way that feels scary or maybe
associated with shame. And when you're
doing that, you're genuinely about to
discover something new. [music] That's
when you can take real risk.
>> Can you describe the the long strange
[music] journey you've been on of like
why you started and then what it was
like to exist and have done some
interesting stuff when this thing
happened and then how you took advantage
of it. I find the two chapter story so
uh so interesting. We started with the
really abstract ambition of how do we
give the power of programming to more
people. My co-founder Nicola and I were
really we like worked in product even
though we both studied engineering and
we were trying to build I think it was
really just hey you're in the 21st
century you have computers that can do
things for you and if you can't tell
them what to do then you can't capture
any of the value that's being created
and we had a lot of ideas and we wanted
to build them and every time we tried to
build something it was taking so long. I
was also starting to play around with
producing music and I really like tools
like Ableton Live. I have an idea. I can
extract it from my mind and into the
machine. Um, and we were also in this
uh kick of like looking at the history
of computation and things like in the
1960s like the mother, you know, the
mother of all demos. seeing the fluidity
of the interaction between you and a
computer needs to be super fluid for it
actually to lead you to the next stage
of thinking, right? You need like low
latency between I have an idea, it
happened and um and because we were
coding, we felt kind of that that
adrenaline that everybody's feeling
right now, right? Which is, hey, I can
tell the machine to do something and it
does. In the 21st century, it really is
like the material is computation. It's
kind of like if in the past it was oil,
you know, or steel or whatever it is,
today it's computation. Um, and so the
more we can give that to more people,
the more interesting things happen, um,
the more egalitarian it is. Um, and so
it's almost it's kind of interesting
because that was our desire and there
were no LLMs which actually we started
off by thinking about the terminal and
we're like how do we reinvent the
terminal where you know engineers are
spending all of their time and then
we're like well that's just going to
speed up engineers. We need to find
something that gives that power to more
people. In 2017 we started thinking do
we give it to consumers or business
users? We ended up deciding business
users for a variety of reasons. Um and
then within that we were like okay which
department in a business actually has a
ton of ideas but isn't able to execute
them um and landed on kind of like sales
and marketing where we think people are
really creative but they don't have the
ability to turn a lot of their ideas um
into reality. I'll give you one example
that's real today that is kind of wild,
but we have one company that sells to
businesses that have a lot of garbage,
right? So now they're using Google um
what's called satellite view to see
which areas have a lot of accumulation
of garbage and then they kind of figure
out, okay, that's a good business to
sell to. So that's an idea that you
might have, but it might be super hard
to execute that at scale. And now
something like Clay can actually
translate that for you. Because of that,
because the whole intention around Clay
was how do we give the power of
programming to people, that's kind of
how the name came because we're like,
okay, it's go to market, but now you're
an engineer. And so we came up with that
before it was really possible to um you
know, use LMS to fully code, but it it
was how do you systematically think
about a problem and break it down and
then execute it? Um, and I I think we've
also kept that ethos in the company. Um,
and that's what makes us really
different than everybody else in our
space. There are simple things that
we've been saying out loud, but I think
people don't really believe that that's
why it works. So, one is it's a creative
task. And so, if it's a creative task,
we need to leave it somewhat open-ended.
A lot of companies that counterposition
to clay or in the space are like, "Hey,
what you really want is salespeople are
people have literally used the word coin
operated, right?" And so what you need
is something that's super easy to use.
It gives you the answer. It tells you
who you're selling to and what you're
saying and it just works. Um whereas we
think you always need in sales or it to
find go to market alpha. So like how are
you different than everybody else
otherwise it's just noise and then Clay
in order to do that you need to have a
really powerful tool that allows you to
experiment quickly and try things out
and see what works and and so we built
that instead which was very
counterintuitive.
>> Describe the takeoff of chapter 2 of
okay now LLM's come out sort of what
happened in that what that moment felt
like what the sort of subchapters have
been since.
>> Yeah. What's interesting in that story
that I that is maybe worth talking a bit
more about is that it wasn't um as
simple as you know like this was back in
2022 and we we had made a decision to
say okay we are targeting kind of go to
market teams specifically sales
specifically we're going to start with
outbound specifically we're going to
start with people who want to get data
from lots of different data providers in
order to do outbound um and in in fact
it's going to be agencies and not
startups and we're going to do a lot of
what we're doing and support them in
public uh and build a community. So we
took a lot of decisions that I think
were nonobvious.
Um, and the main thing that happened was
really the courage and commitment I
think to making those decisions that
actually allowed the company to take off
cuz the company was already taking off
before uh like chat GPT came out and we
were well set up to include kind of like
LLM LLMs in Clay because one we were set
up to allow any integration to anything
and two we for a coding like product
just designed with go to market
primitives. Um and so as soon as we had
LLMs it just boosted everything. There
were three kind of like core assumptions
that we made. Um and I actually think
this is how to build a really big
company and one that grows really
quickly. So we went from one to 100 in
two years. But that wouldn't work if the
if we weren't pointing in the right
direction. So you need to kind of set
everything up so that you're pointing in
the right direction so that when the
wave comes, you go with it and you're
not fighting it. So for us, we made a
couple of decisions. One, people in go
to market are creative. And so we're
going to give them the most powerful
tool. If you were going to give the most
powerful tool instead of the kind of
like the most simple out of the box
tool, then you need to find the right
customer or user for it. And for that we
said okay we're doing it for revops
um which is an existing kind of role and
we're going to call the subset of um or
the the the word jobs to be done go to
market engineering to give it um a a
framing right this is the tasks to be
done are all the things that you need to
do like the activities to grow your
business right remove kind of any
obstacles to growth um and then the last
part was we're going to charge charge uh
for usage instead of per seat because
we're trying to get more productivity.
And so if you have fewer people, we
didn't want that to be something that,
you know, is is an anti-inccentive for
us.
>> So if you just look at those three
decisions, actually almost every other
decision in the company falls
immediately out of those. Anyone can
come up with what we should do next if
you believe these three things. And I
think that's the best way also to run a
company that's growing really quickly is
because I have to just communicate to
you these are the three things that
we're assuming and whenever you're
making a decision check to see if it
works within these three concept. I mean
I feel like people don't talk enough
about
the things that actually matter in
building a business. I had this dream
actually where um it was kind of like a
vision where I saw like lots of statues
in a kind of like modern city but I was
wondering like oh we don't build statues
anymore. If you look at like old kind of
like republics, they would have statues
for concepts like courage or you know um
integrity or whatever and there are like
gods for these different things. And I
feel like we've forgotten that those are
the things that actually these abstract
kind of ideas or justice or you know
whatever it is that matter in the moment
when you're building a company. It it
was actually hey you need courage to
make a leap and um actually commit to
these ideas and then see what is the
logical conclusion if we take these
ideas seriously all the way to the end.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that no
[music] one wants to spend hours filing
expense reports, reviewing expense
reports, and checking for policy
violations. So, they built their tools
to give that time [music] back using AI
to automate 85% of expense reviews with
99% accuracy. And since RAMP saves
companies 5%, [music] it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe runs on
RAM, and my business does too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out [music] ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use WorkOS. And here's
why. To achieve enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, skim, arbback,
and audit logs. That's where work OS
comes in. Instead of spending months
building these mission critical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
work OS APIs to gain all of them on day
zero. That's why so many of the top AI
teams you hear about already run on work
OS. Work OS is the fastest way to become
enterprise ready and stay focused on
what matters most, your [music] product.
Visit works.com to get started.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo Aai's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how [music] Wall
Street bankers and investors actually
work from sourcing, diligence, and
modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Robo. First, [music] it
connects directly to your systems, so it
can work with your actual data. Second,
it understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or [music]
an investment. And third, it runs end to
end and produces real outputs the way
the best people do. auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that [music] match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that ROGO is
built by finance professionals for
finance [music] professionals. And it's
already being adopted by some of the
most demanding institutions in the
world. To learn more, visit
rogo.ai/invest.
If you can put three statues off the
elevator in the lobby, what three would
you build?
>> Courage. Because you it's it's one thing
that I've been that I think a lot about
is like real risk. I think capitalism
rewards risk um more than anything else.
It's not I think a lot of people think
it rewards it's like meritocracy. There
are a lot of people who are working
really hard or hard work which I think
is silly. Um there are a lot of people
working really hard and not making a lot
of money. Um so it's not hard work.
There's some correlation there but it's
definitely not just that. It it doesn't
just reward kind of skill. Again,
there's a lot of really skilled people.
Uh there are people, you know, who do
things that I can't even dream of. You
know, they're you're eating a sword or
you're like juggling and they're not
making as much money as someone doing
like a YouTube video. You know, I just
it's clear again that that's not the
case. I do think it rewards risk. Um
which makes sense as well. I don't have
like a strong comment on whether that's
good or bad. I'm just trying to figure
out what's actually happening.
>> And so
to take real risks and then there's a
lot of people who think they're taking
risks but aren't taking real risks,
right? I talked to one founder who was
like, you know, went to a good school
then went to YC and then was telling me
about his company and he's like, "We
serve sales and we serve recruiting."
And I was like, "You have to pick one."
This is where you're actually providing
value in picking and and actually
committing yourself um to serving some
group of people in some specific way.
For me, at least my definition of risk
or how I've experienced it is you need
to not know what's going to happen
genuinely. So, you're you're going to
discover something new. And you also
need to have I think it needs to be
coupled with a high potential for shame.
it needs to be you can fail in a way
that feels um scary or maybe associated
with shame and and and when you're doing
that you're genuinely about to discover
something new and learn from it and
that's that's when you can take real
risk and to do that you then need to
have many traits one of them is courage
>> let's take justice for a second because
I I want to live like in a stable
society that allows me to kind like have
the time and space to think of things. I
think you know and and just to explore
like you know the world is pretty crazy.
Um I went to see this movie uh called
Stop Making Sense. I was uh downstairs
like in the movie theater and I was I
had like a joint that I was about to
smoke and I was trying to light it up
but I didn't have a lighter and so I
asked a guy uh who was standing there.
And I was like, "Hey, can I borrow your
lighter?" And he was like, "Sure. Can I
ask you a question?" And I was like,
"Yeah, of course." And he was like,
"What is this?" And I was like, "What do
you mean this whole thing?" He was like,
"Yeah, what is this?" And I was like,
"Well, that's a big question. I haven't
even spoke by joy yet." Like,
>> well, I mean, if I was just kind of like
thrown into this and I was like, "What
is this?" I think like the world is a
mysterious and kind of like amazing
place. And I feel like there's so much
to know. we're just kind of like
starting to make progress on like how
wonderfully weird it is. Um, and we
should be spending more time like like
exploring that. Um, and
and to do that, I feel like we need
stability. So, and and to get stability,
I think you need to have justice between
people. I think there's no way no stable
way for some group of people to dominate
others.
um it just doesn't work. No matter how
strong you think you are, um the other
person is a tremendous nuisance, you
know, if if they feel like they're
treated unfairly. So there's no stable
configuration around that. And if you're
thinking about the economy um or like
countries, there's no way to you can't
bluster your way out of it. You can't
say we're the strongest. you have to do
if as soon as you start even when I'm
saying that right like I have to
remember when I have power over people
you tend to be like they must do what I
want because I want them to because I
control this it's just not a stable
configuration you can get by for a
little bit and then you get tremendous
push back um so I think that having the
value of justice um one thing I think
about is like how do you treat people
with respect and fairness all the time
um in every situation whether you're
hiring them or firing them or you're
disagreeing right over what they should
be doing. So I think that that maybe is
what's fueling kind of this
democratization, right? Like you want to
even people are stable in a place where
they feel like they have the opportunity
to get what you've gotten to as long as
there's some kind of like fair chance
for that. Um and they're okay with what
they've gotten if they feel like, hey,
this is what's available to me at the
moment. But it's also just as a side
note, I think this is just kind of like
an internal thing that I've had. Like I
used to play soccer and even on my team
if I feel like we fouled the other team
and we could get away with it, I would
have like a really weird thing of like
integrity. This feels off.
>> Do you have a sense of where that came
from?
>> It's some kind of like intuitive knowing
for myself that it's like I'm a
long-term greedy person, you know, and
this is kind of what one of the things
we talk a lot about at the company is
like how do you be long-term greedy? And
I think the only way to be long-term
greedy is to stay in integrity for
people to feel like there's justice all
the way along. And that way you can
Yeah. I think it's also just like a
belief in yourself, right? You don't
have to cheat in the like short term to
get something. You're going to win.
Maybe one small thing about this is like
if you
let's say you're playing a soccer game,
you feel like you cheated or like this
wasn't fair and then you won. It doesn't
feel as good. So I I did hear the your
like interview with Brian Chesky's the
um like the statement he made around you
know the getting to hundred billion
dollars and um
>> feeling like
>> I Yeah. And I I I actually felt like I
related in like we're obviously in a
much you know smaller spot but even
early on when we raised our series A um
I remember having that sensation of like
oh there's no if you're doing this to
get agilation or to get uh you know
prestige or to make some money there's
no end to that. It's kind of like an
empty thing that passes. Um you the only
judge of anything is yourself and your
own kind of self-respect.
Um uh and so you have to be doing it so
that you feel like what you've done is
interesting and worthwhile and you you
know when you're an ambitious person
your judgment is actually way higher
than anyone else because you know
everything that you're thinking and you
know everything everything that you've
done. So, I know everything that I'm
thinking about or doing and my kind of
um standards are higher than anyone
else.
>> There's this thing I like to do where
when I spend some time with somebody, I
wait an hour and then I write down notes
in my phone cuz I want I like I like
benefit from the hour of like it it's
like a cleansing function or something
like whatever lasts in my brain through
that hour like I want to write down.
When we last worked together, this is
the one thing I wrote down which was
this notion of optimizing for
self-respect over everything else. Yeah.
>> Oh, we'll get to truth in a second, but
how that optimizes relates back to risk
and courage. Like, do you think those
things are related? And and and the
question behind the question is like how
do you think it's possible to help
people become more courageous and take
more risk?
>> I think I think in order to do that, you
just need to understand your mind and
your motivations more and be more honest
about them. It's very hard to admit to
yourself. I think you know why you're
doing something are you doing it even if
you look at the narratives for companies
none of them have any relation to the
motivation the motivation of the
founders and I think probably the honest
story is like a mixture of things and we
don't talk about that in public right so
I think if you for me for example it's
like why am I building a company um and
do I think that I will be more liked or
loved if I, you know, do something that
is a success at a worldclass level,
right? And can I get that now? Right?
So, I've had friends come up to me that
are like, "Hey, I don't care if you
succeed or fail. I love you." And I was
like, "Wow, that's actually helpful. I
didn't think it would be, but it's like,
well, I'm that that's feeding kind of
like some part of my desire must be
fueled by that, but I can get that right
now." And now I can start to take real
risks where I'm thinking about the
business and not trying to fill this
like particular need.
>> Um, you know, VCs have this common trope
that is, hey, we invest in someone that
has a chip on their shoulder, right? Or
has some kind of lack that they're
trying to fulfill. Um, and this is
common across like creative work. The
trope is like you're depressed or you're
anxious or whatever and you're trying to
fill that and you're actually afraid to
lose that depression or anxiety or
whatever it is because you feel like
you'll be less productive or like
creative. Um, and I had the kind of like
through my journey, I had this moment
where I was like, you know what, I'm not
going to create from a place of lack
anymore. Um, and I went around uh
probably pretty annoyingly telling
people I'm I have everything I need. I'm
good.
>> Post lack.
>> Post lack. Yeah. And um it's a great
negotiation leverage because there's
nothing you can give me. I feel great.
I'm already complete, you know, and from
there you can still create. I think
people are misunderstanding
um like tremendously misunderstanding
this in in my opinion. It's kind of like
well if we have if we were in a post
scarcity world no one will do anything.
Everybody will just be hanging out. And
it's like have you been to Burning Man?
People are still doing stuff you know
and they have things. I think you can
create from a place of wholeness and in
fact you will be less destructive in the
world. Um, so I I think you'll create
less damage because you're doing it now
because we keep thinking here like, hey,
let's think of our customers. What are
we trying to give them? Stop thinking
about other in an organization, you
could there are so many other why do
people keep saying customers first. It's
because when you're in a company, things
start to happen where it's like this
person's thinking about their career or
this person wants to please this other
person. They're not thinking about the
customer. They're just thinking about
the internal dynamics. The more whole
you can be, I think, the more risks you
can take and the more courage you will
have because you have nothing to lose.
>> It's funny to me that perhaps the most
interesting duo in modern business
history, Johnny Ivan, Steve Jobs, were
like almost undoubtedly creating from
this generative place. Um, I don't know
if they'd use the same terminology or
something, but you read it all like it's
all there.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're the most adored, right? But
maybe the least emulated. It it demands
the question um the things that got you
to this sense of wholeness. Yeah. From
this place of lack.
>> Um there's been much strange debate
about the role of introspection in in um
in business and in general. I think
naively I would say like it's
introspection. It's a key tool in the
toolkit to get from one to the other. Um
curious what your experience has been or
what you would what you would offer
about that phase change. I kind of
understand actually the the motivation
here because one thing I talk a lot
about here and have thought for myself
is the amount of work the doing versus
metaanalysis
um it can sometimes flip right so you
should be like 90% of the time doing and
then 10% of the time meta analyzing
sometimes actually at work we've had
this happen a lot and I talk to the team
a lot about it where people are like hey
what is going to happen in one year or
like why are we building this feature
instead of that feature and I'm like is
that stopping you from taking the next
step in your job? If not then you're
procrastinating. So I think my sense is
his conversation around that is and also
by the way if you're trying to build I
think his example was Walmart right it
was like if you're trying to build more
Walmarts yes you should always be
thinking about wake up in the morning
build more Walmart but at some scale
news when Walmart is affecting all of us
if you don't think about why you're
building Walmart you know or what you
know more Walmarts do to us or to a
shared environment
um that responsibility is on you. I I I
think that the more you make and the
more successful you become, it is part
of your responsibility back to like all
of us to think about what you're doing,
right? That you're our representative
now. Um you're not a completely
independent actor. Uh and in fact, we
have the power to pull some of that
stuff back from you. So is there
anything that you did in particular
right
>> as just just about your specific story
going from kind of black to wholeness or
>> right for me I think the introspection
is it it was um a journey to kind of
understand like why ambition right so I
was suspicious of my own ambition I was
like what what am I trying to get out of
this um and actually I think part of why
the company took some time to take off
was because I was grappling with that
and that led me to kind investigate like
which parts of me are trying to kind of
be expressed through this. And that was
just my own personal interest. I just
found that I couldn't just do something
without understanding my motivation for
it because I was um looking at people
who are further ahead in my field,
right? Like if you're a great business
person or you built a great company and
I was like, do I want that? What
actually I I think it's also coming from
like valuing my time and myself really I
I was having this kind of experience
where I'm like what if I took myself
really seriously. You could take
yourself lightly and just be like well
these are just thoughts. I want to do
something big so do other people or take
it really seriously and be like what why
do I want to do that? What would I
actually offer the world if I was able
to do that? Um and then thinking like
hey you can succeed and create a lot of
damage in the world. Um and back to the
kind of like I was I I think a lot about
death right and like you know if you
on your deathbed like what are you
thinking what are how does it feel in
that moment if you had a moment to
reflect and like who get how do you
judge yourself and for me I didn't
there's like the experience of every day
and living a life that you feel is
worthwhile on a day-to-day basis and
there's also like how did you impact the
world if you did impact it and I wanted
to make sure that I felt like I really
grappled with that correctly and I
didn't just try to accumulate resources.
>> Um, and just be like, hey, I did
something big. I accumulated some
resources. It's funny, it does go back
to this like justice principle. It's
like if you're going to do something
big, you need to kind of think about the
consequences of you taking that role
because it's just a role.
>> It's a really cool thought exercise to
say, okay, play out the thing I'm doing
to its natural extreme. Do I want that
state?
>> Right?
>> Probably no one does that. Do you
respect like you know I had one time
where I I remember when I was much
younger I was like oh like I want to
make a lot of money and then I'll be a
philanthropist and I'm like is that
actually useful there are a lot of
philanthropists is it working or is it
just that I want the control to pick the
causes that I want.
>> Um and on this like uh maybe one more
thing on the death thing that I think is
kind of interesting was like my own
insight that I had. I went on this 10day
silent retreat um a while back and it I
thought I was going to just go think you
know it was not that it was kind of like
a spiritual experience and it it wasn't
um it was called herodia not like a vapa
and so hi herodas their approach there
is like a non-dual approach to
meditation where typically you kind of
like meditate on your breath or some
object whereas in non-dual traditions
it's called the direct path and in the
direct path you meditate on the space
between the breaths or you you ask the
question who am I a very frustrating
question I would say I would not
recommend it but anyway I'm doing this
thing on the fifth day I have like this
big insight where I'm like I I figured
it out I got it so then on the seventh
day I'm like okay well what now you know
I uh I start imagining going back and
telling my friends about like this
insight but I'm like oh I'm not here I'm
just imagining the future I'm I kept
kind of wanting to go towards the end
and then I had this like really big
flash of insight that I try to remember,
but it's that whenever you're picturing
the future or anticipating the future,
you're actually it's kind of like
Freud's death drive, right? You're
actually just the the only thing that
happens in the future is you die, you
know, like the far future, whatever it
is. And so you're accelerating that. Um,
and as soon as I had that thought, it's
kind of the death drive, you know,
actually thinking about the future is
the death drive. And so I like
immediately kind of felt back in my own
body in the moment and felt the boredom
of where I was. And I was like, "Wow,
this is such delicious boredom. I'm so I
I finally got that insight, which is I'm
so grateful to be bored right now
because it's so amazing." I also
realized that I have this like scarcity
like food scarcity. I was thinking
constantly about food and where am I
going to eat, you know? And then I just
had this one pee and it exploded in my
head. I was like, "This is too much. I
can't eat anymore."
But I realized that I have an
accumulation tendency where I'm like,
it's with food. Like, where's the food
going to come from? And in the company,
I noticed I'm like, where's the next,
you know, ARR going to come from? And
and I now I'm aware of that and I'm like
aware of when I have enough. And then I
can take more risk. I don't need to
accumulate something that's way beyond
actually what we need. What was the day
five insight or was that the insight
itself?
>> No, the day five insight is like a
momentary experience of like this of
like understanding what matters or
something like that because I felt like
oh I'm I'm connected
to all things. Hey, I am a component or
like a part of this whole thing and I'm
connected to all things and they all
matter. I had kind of this thought of
like one, I'm no better than and no
worse than anyone else. Uh but also it
made me feel like this real empathy when
you know I see someone who's suffering
they're also me and not not like not I
empathize with them as if I was them.
I'm like this is actually me.
>> Um and that that's kind of like a really
out there thought or like belief.
>> Strange thing is it's actually not at
all like it's like the longest lasting
set of beliefs right
>> in the deepest richest philosophical
traditions. What was crazy wasn't the
idea. It was the
>> experience
>> experience of really feeling that and
then knowing that like you know when I
hear something in Buddhism that's just
like freedom of all beings or knowing
that um you know the suffering of one
person is the suffering of everyone. So
back to the justice thing, it's like
well I can't solve everybody's problems
and I I and and in fact that would be
hurting me to try to help someone when I
don't have capacity. but to really know
like every single person they're
carrying it for me rather than they
up or they screwed up and I'm
better because I worked hard and did x y
and z.
>> So bring it back to our statutes is that
then truth like is the is the day five
insight
>> is that just truth?
>> Yeah. So I think that yeah if we go back
to kind of capital T truth it's like
really understanding that and then I
understand why in philosophical
traditions or even in religions they're
like remembrance right because it's like
I can I can get that momentary
understanding but then remembering it in
the moment when I'm making a decision
about my business or about like my
personal life is very tricky. Um, but I
do think that that is what's necessary
for us to get to the next stage of like
what's interesting in the world. There's
so many mysteries, you know, like
scientific mysteries. There's just like
so many interesting things. Um, and I
feel probably like many other people
that we're squabbling in circular ways
around the same nonsense.
>> Uh, truly actually it like my real anger
is like what are we doing? We're wasting
our time. Um, but we're wasting our like
human potential. We're wasting our time.
>> If I hear and digest all of that and
then I imagine, okay, this guy is now
running a software startup,
>> right? [laughter]
>> I I might imagine that that startup is
run in some unusual ways,
>> right?
>> And so I'm curious what those are and
and and why you arrived at unusual ways
of running the business.
>> It's back to like the meta reflection
point is yes, there are some unusual
ways in which we run the business. I
think it's important to be careful of
how much you kind of push ideas onto
other people or like project onto them
kind of like your beliefs and also to to
remember what context you're working on.
It's almost like telling a story, right?
Like if you're if this is the normal way
to run a business and then you think
that it's this kind of like completely
bizarro way over here, you also need to
take the steps to like tell the story.
And I think it's the same in like
product development, right? I can't just
give you a product that you have no
context for. You don't even understand
how to interact with it. Um, so I think
it's like, hey, these are my personal
beliefs that are and my kind of like
interests that are underlying some of
the normal activities that we do and
then there's adjustments that we make.
I'd say the first and most important way
is that it's a felt experience right in
the company um of how we treat people
and how we think about uh like their
personal development. But there there
are like concrete ways in which it shows
up. One way is that we overinvest in
things that people typically underinvest
in. So what does that mean? Like we over
we've overinvested in recruiting, in
brand, in content, in community
building. We've hired people who are
very overqualified, you know, um, in
some of these roles who are doing it for
the first time and we've paid them as if
they were, for example, we just actually
published an article about this with one
person who was an early employee, Mishi.
And um, she took a content role. She
would have never taken a content role,
right? Um, it's typically kind of not
the most highly paid thing in a company
where it's like you're it's extra. And
we compensated her like a PM and we're
like, go do it. So we take those kinds
of risks and then we stick with it. I
think another thing by the way with
risks is when when you couple risks and
courage, the next part is commitment.
You actually need to kind of follow
through to see what actually ends up
happening. You can't just quit in the
beginning. We take that seriously and if
we see some somebody is really skilled
or has some star potential, we stay with
it for way longer than most. You know,
everybody talks about hiring fast and
firing fast. We've had people who nine
months in were floundering
um and we're like this person is
excellent. I know they are, but what's
going on here? Is it the role? Is it the
context? Right? Is it our decision-m
that's limiting them? And eventually, I
would say we we find an amazing spot for
that person and they become a superstar
50% of the time. you know, 50 the other
50% of the time, this person might be
really special, but we just can't create
the conditions for them or they're too
far away. Like, one thing that I've
talked to my co-founder, Verunat, is
like, "We're never pissed off when
someone doesn't work out." We're like,
"Hey, you're just we're here and you're
here. Maybe along the journey one day
you'll get there, but you're not getting
there fast enough. You you don't have
what we need at this moment." Um, so I
don't even have a opinion on whether
you're good or bad. Like people were
like, "This person was good. This person
was bad." that were you good in the
moment that we needed you to be? Uh, and
actually you might also be super
skilled, but you just didn't perform
here. I've had people who are
incredible. I know they're incredible
and they couldn't perform here for a
variety of reasons and they've gone to
other places and done a really good job.
So, I think it's important to kind of
like
be nuanced. But then, you know, there
are some other things where I think some
of the things that people have covered
about us in the past is like, you know,
I like clowning. For example, I
discovered clowning.
>> What What's clowning
>> exactly? I when just the word clowning I
was like what is this? I think of it as
like edgy improv. Um there's kind of
like four types of clowning. Um uh so
there's kind of like physical clowning
which is the one you would imagine when
you think of clowning. There is uh u
like emotional range. So let me make you
happy then make you sad then make you
happy. So you can feel the full kind of
like range. There's the jester which is
like telling truth to power. Um, and
then there's the trickster which I think
is pretty interesting which is how do I
tell you like spiritual truths through
kind of jokes like you realize hey
everything does change you know that's
like a truth about the world but I get
you to experience that we take kind of
like our things like that or like we are
really into magicians at clay um and we
incorporate it into kind of like uh our
events or things that we do and we take
risks like our our brand takes a lot of
risks way more risks than I think
general B2B brands and it it that's why
people love the brand and the company.
It's authentic to us but it's also um I
think honest. We're not hedging. I think
a lot of times people are authentic but
hedging. So they're not really saying
what they want to say because they're
afraid of the consequences. What have
you learned from magicians? I actually
think the trickster thing is the thing
that's been a common thread between
this, but I there's this place called 69
Atlantic. And the
thing that I remember from the these
really like incredible magicians is it's
not just like a slate of hand things.
There's a storytelling component. And I
think a lot of them,
it's kind of wild, but like a lot of
them are telling a story of like a deep
understanding of like how your mind
works or like how the world works where
they're like, "Hey, I'm showing you this
thing." And really what they're trying
to do is to spark curiosity. And
actually, we're going to do something
about this at Clay. Um, we're calling it
like re-enchanting the world, right?
Like in a world where there's AI, right?
It's literally magic in some form,
right? And to remember that like there's
a lot of this is magic, right? Like a
lot of these things that we're sitting
in front of are still magic. It's pretty
wild. And to kind of like re-enchant the
world again and not make it like this
boring place where you think you
understand how it works cuz you really
don't. Um, and so I think they're doing
like simple things to reignite that
feeling of like wonder. Um, and I think
if you take that feeling of wonder
actually in your everyday
um, life, you're you're you're a more
kind of like friendly person cuz you're
you're not like, "Oh, I understand how
this person works or I understand how
this is." You're like more curious. Um,
it makes you more curious about our
customers. It makes us interact in a
more pleasant way cuz we're like, "Oh,
there's stuff to learn here." So, I
think what I've been actually getting
from this like magic stuff is been like
remembering what it feels like to be
like, I have no idea how this is working
and I can't even begin to comprehend how
to think about it. I know that it's a
trick, but I can't figure it out.
>> For whatever reason, this makes me
wonder kind of the same question about
music, like the role that music plays in
and has played in your life
>> and what you've learned from your many
many experiences with music.
>> One of the key things I think with music
versus other kind of things is time,
right? Like you can't listen to a song
without time. Time is actually a core
component and silence is a core
component like the spaces between
things. So it's a good reminder that
those are like fundamental things that
you have to work with. It's like very
zen you know it's like where the thing
isn't you know where the room isn't is
where we are right if this room was full
of things we couldn't sit in here and we
only think about making things. We don't
think about removing things and we don't
think about things unfolding. Right?
Like I think video is also like that but
a painting isn't right. It's just you
can see it all at once. Um, so I think
about like narrative, like how are you
telling the story? How are you bringing
people along with you on the journey?
Um, you can't tell everyone everything
all at once. It's overwhelming because
you've you've had time to process. They
haven't. Um, but the this piece that I
was reading, it was talking about
endings. So, we always think about
beginnings, but we don't really think
about endings. When you're starting a
company, you're not like, well, what
about all the people that I'm going to
fire? And so many crazy things genuinely
happen. As soon as you have a large
number of people, all kinds of people
get sick, people people's par, you know,
just like you're dealing with a
microcosm of humanity. You're running
like a mini society. Um, and so it was
like, hey, we can look to music to think
about the different forms of endings and
learn from that. So some songs end, you
know, um, as just like repeating and it
goes like down in volume. Some things
end suddenly, you know, some things end
with like it's like a whimper or like
intensity. And actually, you can think
of these as like different ways to end
something. Another one that I think is
really cool, an essay that I read that
was called um the emancipation of
dissonance, which first of all is a
really cool title. Uh but it was kind of
like theorizing the history of music as
um a history of accepting more sounds as
music. So in the beginning it was just
kind of like maybe drumming or like
first it's like the tonic like you know
you play the C and then you know the C
an octave above and then it was adding
the fifth like that's why it's called
the perfect fifth and like a lot of
Baroque music had that and then people
started adding the third which is what
creates chords like minor and major
chords and initially that was resisted
people are like what the hell is this
feels off but then you add the seventh
where you get jazz and people were like
that's unacceptable like this is not
music and then eventually you start to
add more and more tones. So this was
arguing for not just like the tw you
know in western music there's 12 notes
but in um Arabic music or Indian there's
24 and there's other kind of like um
scales that you can use that have even
more tones you can use micro tones now
that you have electronic music you can
make any kind of sound um and I I think
this idea of accepting more sounds as
music
um is actually a helpful product
principle
>> um and and just a way of being where you
can start to think like what are all
these other ways of being that you think
are off that actually could be
productive or useful if you kind of put
them in the right context.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids [music]
and patches, it's unfortunately far too
easy for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool [music] designed to simplify and
automate your security work and deliver
a single source of truth for compliance
and risk. There's a reason that ramp,
cursor, and snowflake all use Vanta. It
frees them to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Invest like the best listeners
get a special offer of $1,000 off Vanta
when you go to vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack [music] is for asset management
firms. And seemingly every new tool and
data source makes the problem even
worse, adding more complexity, more
headcount, and more [music] risk.
Ridgeline offers a better way forward.
One unified platform that automates away
that complexity across portfolio
accounting, reconciliation, reporting,
trading, [music] compliance, and more,
all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
[music] helping ambitious firms scale
faster, operate smarter, and stay ahead
of the curve. See what Ridgeline can
unlock for your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai.
It seems also like an interesting
throughine is in the world we're going
into, how important it will be to make
people feel something,
>> right? Um but maybe also something new.
>> Yeah.
>> Like like if we can create anything like
the logos of it all is like yeah
whatever you can create anything you
want that the pathos is becomes really
important on top of that and the
insights for music is like make people
feel something new.
>> We use this a lot like I I'm telling
people like hey we're not building a
microwave. Microwaves are useful but
they're commoditized right? You just go
and say hey 1 minute heat it it does
what it needs to do. There's no
difference between most of them, but
we're building a guitar, right? And with
a guitar, there's just six strings and
12, you know, frets, but you could spend
your whole life
>> just getting better at that. And you can
only be playing one style of music and
it's still like new. And I actually
think um like if you bring that to sales
or like go to market things um it can
feel like a crazy stretch, but actually
if you actually
respect that discipline and be like hey
where what is the ultimate version of
sales you need or like marketing or
customer success that's why it's called
go to market in my opinion is just like
how do I take the thing that I made and
give it to you when you need it and
that's the I if I really truly was like
hey what's the idealized form of this
that's what it is yeah it's raining I
bring an umbrella you were like great
thank you right and that's what you
actually want to get to. And I think
there's a place where, you know, I made
something, especially as people make so
many new things and you happen to need
it and it's very niche and I'm able to
find you and give it to you and without
necessarily manufacturing that desire in
you, but ideally like if you need
something, we can get it for you because
we happen to be making it.
>> Um, and so we're thinking about all of
the creative ways to figure that out.
One really interesting conversation you
and I have had before is about the role
of vision in company building.
>> Yeah.
>> And the leader's responsibility or lack
thereof to have one in the first place.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And uh or to have one sometimes.
>> Yeah.
>> I'd love you to riff on the leader role
and responsibility to have or not have a
vision.
>> I think when we were having that
discussion too, my my uh instinct is to
go one level deeper. Actually, let's
turn it back to one of our statues.
truth. Um, you need to say the truth.
So, if you don't have a vision, then you
don't have a vision. If you do have a
vision, then you do have a vision. Don't
say something that actually isn't
happening. Um, and that's that's my
answer to that is that I do think
ultimately you need to kind of have some
destination or like some guiding
principle or some compass, but you don't
need that at all times and you don't
need to force it. If you just know what
the next step is, you should take the
next step. And sometimes things happen
in all kinds of ways. You most of
medical discoveries are complete
coincidences. So many of like the most
advanced things that we've got, I don't
know, the cosmic microwave background.
Complete coincidence. You couldn't have
gone out and said, I want to discover
the cosmic microwave background. There's
so many of these things. And so I think
we're telling ourselves a a story that
is not true about the nature of
discovery and how it happens. And I
think we do a disservice to everybody
when we go back and retell the story in
a way that is not honest because it
confuses the people who are on the path
of figuring it out. So for me um I think
a much more honest version let's say
you're starting a company and you don't
know what to do. So many people have
that problem. All the stories of
greatness are like I was 13 and I um saw
this one thing and then I dedicated my
whole life to it. And I think that
happens and it also happens in other
ways. So sort of optimize for discovery
rather than destination would be like
one way to think about it.
>> I would say leave the space for the
opportunity to discover. If you do have
a vision, you should be clear about
that. Um and clear how confident you are
in that. And if you don't have a vision,
I don't think that's a problem. Um I
think you can take the next step and
allow the vision to come. you know, um,
in Native American traditions, I don't
know why this is relevant, but it it's
coming up for me, is like there are
things called like vision quests where
you go and fast for a few days and
you're asking for a vision, right? And I
think you know the sometimes you need to
do things in order to get the vision of
what you're supposed to do and and by
and by the way in companies it also
could change over time. So you might
have a vision and then either the vision
is wrong. A lot of companies who started
five, six years ago that are kind of
confused now because things have
changed. Well, it's time to change the
vision. And you don't need to settle on
a new one immediately. You can say,
"Hey, we don't we don't actually know
what we're doing right now." Um, and we
can take the next step in what we like
the immediate next step in what we're
doing right now and wait to receive that
vision.
>> Do you feel like you have a vision right
now?
Yeah, right now I feel pretty clear that
about
and within the like scope of what we're
doing like what the vision is. We're
basically just helping everybody every
company in the world find who their best
customer is and find more of them and
accelerate that.
>> What about the notion of wealth? Like
you've also in these chap two chapters
had this interesting experience of um
now because of Clay's success you've
achieved a level of wealth that by any
measure is you know extraordinary. What
has that process been like and what has
it what has that taught you?
>> The initial thing that I had thought was
true is true is that there's no
like amount of if you're not kind of
like feeling whole in yourself, there's
no amount of wealth that fills that. Um
it it it doesn't
change that because you know it's a it's
a it's a continuous kind of like
competitive game. But I think what
material kind of like like abundance
gives you is the like reality also of
your time back. And I I'm choosing for
example to build this company. I don't
have to I don't need it to succeed more.
I don't need to like make more money or
whatever it is. I'm choosing what I want
to be doing with my time. Um and that is
like it goes back to kind of like that
truth part. It's like really empowering
to I don't I can make my own choices and
I can test things out in the world and
see if they work or not. Um like I'm not
scared or worried about what happens,
but I also needed to have that point of
view in order to get here. So I think
having the opportunity to like choose
what I do with my time um and to like
take bigger swings, it just it feels
really important and then it's like what
responsibility do I owe back to society?
You also once said to be that all
problems are communication problems. I'm
curious how you've gotten better or what
you've learned about not falling into
that trap.
>> It's not that all problems are
communication problems. Like we might
have a disagreement or different needs,
but often
uh we can't resolve it because we're not
uh like we're making assumptions about
each other. We're doing like all kinds
of like game theory things about what
would happen if you did this, if I did
that. It's kind of like in negotiations.
Um, you might have [clears throat]
different strategies, but my strategy is
to be as clear as possible about what I
want, what I think you want. Assuming
that you are really intelligent, can
read kind of like and have access to the
same information as me. I need to know
what you want and what are the options
available. And then we might still
disagree, but at least we are
disagreeing from a place of clarity
rather than from a place of
misunderstanding. Let's say we're asking
someone to leave clay. In in in most
cases, as long as the person is kind of
like in a shared reality with us in a
way that h um is based on clear
communication, right? Like, hey, do you
think it's working here? I don't for
these reasons. What do you think? And
maybe you're like, no, it is working.
But and I was just like, okay, let's
let's kind of like bridge the gap
because we can get to a place where it's
like, I don't want to be giving you
negative feedback every single day. At
one point I told someone, "Hey, listen.
I've lost faith in the ability for you
to bridge the gap." And I'm the CEO, so
it's it's it's not a good uh like
situation for you. Does it make sense?
Right? And even if you think you can get
there, I'm taking responsibility for
that. I'm not saying that this is
rational even. It's just I I can't do it
and that's it. And so in that case it
doesn't really make sense um for you to
continue working here and I want to
share that with you because I'm like you
know I want to be like direct and clear
about it and also own up that this is my
call and I think a lot of people
actually really appreciate that and are
just like okay I get it that doesn't I
wish that it was different but it it's
not so I'm going to do something else.
Most times if someone's leaving what are
they worried about? They're worried
about what are you going to say in the
future to other people right? So I tell
them, hey, if someone calls me up, I'm
going to say it didn't work in these
ways, but I think these are their
strength. I think here are the gaps that
we have in our organization that didn't
support them. How do you not think about
that? Right? Like when I call up a
reference, it's like, can you tell me
what was wrong with your company at the
time? Cuz it wasn't perfect.
>> It's always about someone else. This is
obviously not true, right? Like there
are times when um my management skills
weren't there to like handle this
particular person or the company itself
was um not working and so it creates a
really bad vibe for everybody inside.
When things are working things are
working when things are hard only a few
people can handle that. The reason I'm
saying these things by the way is I'm
like these are the things that I think
are actually interesting through so part
of my experience of building a company
was I I just wanted to know through
building it and being given the hard
choices of how to relate to people or
like you know given a quick profit
versus a long profit what would I do and
like what's the experience that other
people who are making these choices are
facing and I think we're not talking
about these things because the risk is
too high right like if If I talk about
what I'm doing, you know, in a company
and like how I'm treating people, maybe
someone will sue you or like I don't
know, someone will lose customers will
lose faith in you. But actually, these
are kind of like the interesting things.
I really feel like companies are built
through um rules of thumb where I'm
like, "Hey, how do you scale from 100 to
300?" And then I talk to five people who
have done it and they tell me. And by
the way, I've done things that are
completely the opposite of that and it's
worked. And the reality is when you're
going from 100 50 for example to 300
people you don't want to take the risk
of doing something new. You're like
these people did it but then you're
going to get the same problems that they
had. So many people told me there would
be all these weird problems scaling 50
to 300 people. None of them happened.
>> We have some other things that happened
you know but I didn't have the typical
problems because they didn't do it the
typical way.
>> As we approach the end one more question
about endings.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh I'm realizing I take a lot of notes
after our various meetings over the
years. The first time we met, the idea
that I remember writing down was that
you w you told me something like you
wish that there was something like a
death duela for companies.
>> Oh, right. I'm just like why are we not
talking about whether it is good to
scale like uh every business every I
mean people talk about it a little bit
in this like really boring um super worn
out way of like should you raise VC
capital or should you I don't know like
bootstrap completely non-interesting
like actually ways of talking about it
but it's like as a bit as if you I don't
know if you had um like a donut
business, should you try to scale it?
What does scaling it entail? What do you
lose when you scale it? Should we be as
a society incentivizing all businesses
to scale? And we all know this problem
which is like, hey, this restaurant was
really good, now it sucks. So, because I
think there's a life cycle to things and
maybe part of this meditation retreat
and thinking about the death thing, I've
been thinking about like is there a life
cycle to companies and should we just be
okay with that? I I'll pick Microsoft
for a second. is just like you have an
initial put a computer on every desk. I
remember that mission right when I was a
kid and you did put a computer in every
desk but now the mission is u devices
and services and you know do do cool
things right the idea of a company I
think started in the 1500s I think it
was the what East India company or
something so it's like you you get
together for a purpose and then you do
it and then should you disband or should
you keep like the minimal number of
people I think the crypto people have
had some of these ideas okay you built
the layer now you move on to the layer.
Um I do think it's worthwhile as all
this disruption is happening to start
thinking about like the new ways of
doing this. I'm curious about it, but
it's just um a death duela for companies
is hey if your company has achieved its
mission, should we help it pass? Maybe
it should have children and like people
come out and they do cool stuff, but
maybe we can institutionalize these
things rather than trying to scale
things that become zombies or become
worse versions of their former selves
and then complain about it. when we're
incentivizing everybody to scale no
matter what.
>> When you and I are together, I feel like
we always talk a little bit about Clay
and a lot of bit about even more
interesting things. And Clay's very
interesting.
>> Yeah,
>> this has been yet another example of one
of those conversations. I've loved
having it. When I do these, I ask
everyone the same traditional final
question. What is the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you? The one
that's coming to my mind immediately I
had already mentioned actually but it's
uh like a few friends have come up to me
especially when uh Clay before Clay
succeeded um and were like hey you don't
need to do anything we just love you
anyway and then I realized oh I also
don't want like I don't care what
they're doing I don't care what they
achieve I just implicitly like this
person and love them and knowing that I
had that and then I could give that back
to myself as well without any achieve
achievement. Um cuz I think like my
childhood wounding was feeling like I
must achieve in order to have like care
and love and I was like I actually don't
need that. It created a ton of clarity
where I was like I'm doing things
because I want to not because I need
something from it. Clay is just the
output of a lot of like thoughts and
things and we're doing it in a way for
me I hope where I'm not attached um I'm
not attached because I don't need
anything from it. It should just I want
it to evolve the way it wants to evolve.
[music]
>> Thank you so much for your time.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. [music] It's leaking
through a thousand tiny decisions
nobody's watching. Ramp puts guardrails
on spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
[music]
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance, and giving
you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor.
>> [music]
>> They've helped firms 5x in scale,
enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgelineapps.com [music]
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. [music] Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit work os.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product.